Matter:
Matter are your units in game. You can have it buy using Dimensions and use it like a soldier(because matter and antimatter will annihilate each other)
You need at least 1e79 Matter to attack Antimatter!

Dimensions:
Dimensions are your production units in game. The first Dimension produces your Matter. Each consecutive dimension produces the previous one, allowing you to have steady growth. There are eight dimensions total.
Dimension Multiplier: Beside the dimension there is a multiplier (ex. First Dimension x1). The base production of each dimension is multiplied by this number. This multiplier increases by 2x(Base) for every 10 of that dimension purchased. Each time this occurs, the price of the dimension will increase.
Accumulated Dimension Quantity: The next column is your current amount of that dimension you own. This is a combination of how many you have purchased with antimatter, as well as produced from the higher dimension.
Purchased Dimensions Quantity: Next to each accumulated quantity of owned dimensions, the amount of that dimension purchased toward the next multiplier upgrade is displayed in brackets. If you have (4) next to your accumulated dimension quaintly, you will need 6 more of that dimension for the next multiplier increase.
Dimension Growth Percent: This number represents the amount of growth that dimensions experiences per second. +100% means the dimension is doubling each second. This allows you to judge overall growth.
Cost & until 10: You can buy a single quantity of each dimension with antimatter when the cost button is highlighted. Alternatively, if the Until 10 buttons is highlighted, you can buy whatever quantity gets you to that dimensions next dimension multiplier.
Max all: Max all will buy max tickspeed (see below), then will buy until 10 of 8th dimension until it can't anymore, then 7th, and so on.
Dimension base prices: 10, 100, 10000, 1e6, 1e9, 1e13, 1e18, 1e24, etc.
Base per 10 bought dimension price increases:1000, 10000, 1e5, 1e6, 1e8, 1e10, 1e12, 1e15, etc.

Ticks
Tick: Production in the game happens on each “tick”.
Interval: The length of time between ticks. This is lowered by purchasing tick interval reductions.
Cost: The cost of antimatter for reducing the tick interval by the % displayed above (Without Galaxies your base tickspeed decrease is 11% per purchase)
Buy Max: This will buy the maximum amount of tick interval decreases available with your current amount of Antimatter.
Note that the actual tickspeed time is fake and the game always runs at 25 ticks per second.

Dimensions Explore/Boost
Dimension Explore: This resets your current game, but unlocks another dimension for your next run. Each one requires 20 (base) of your highest unlocked dimension.
Dimension Boost: A Dimension Explore, but you don't unlock a new dimension. This happens after 5 dimension shifts. Each one requires 20+(boosts*17) (base) eighth dimensions.
Each dimension explore and boost will provide a x2 (base) multiplier to first dimension, and each dimension after will have half (base) multiplier as the previous (min 1).

Matter Galaxy
Purchasing an Antimatter Galaxy will reset your game back to the point where only 4 Dimensions are available, but will increase the effect of your tick speed interval reduction by 2%.
Though it will have very little impact for the first few purchases, the increase is multiplicative and won’t take long to be visible.
Your first galaxy will increase your tickspeed interval upgrade as if it were 10% originally, so you will have 12% after 1 galaxy.
Galaxies require 80+(galaxies*55) (base) Eighth Dimensions. (80+galaxies*61+(galaxies-100)^2*2 when above 100 non-replicanti galaxies)

Dimensional Sacrifice
You unlock Dimensional Sacrifice after your first dimensional boost.
Sacrificing will immediately reduce the owned quantity of dimensions 1 through 7 to zero. This does not reduce the multiplier or the current cost. In return, it will multiply the Eighth Dimension Multiplier by the shown value. It will take time to get back to the production you previously had, but you will end up with a net increase.
When should I Sacrifice? Depends on your percentages (+%/s), but if they are over ~2% and the multiplier is over 2x, I'd say it's worth it. The lower the percentage, the longer it takes to gain back your dimensions.
Dimensional Sacrifice Checkbox: This allows you to complete dimensional sacrifices without having the warning popup.

The dimensional sacrifice formula (where n is the total amount of first dimensions you've had) is:
Base: (log(n)/10)^m, where m is 2 at base, 2.2 with the "The Gods are pleased" achievement, and 2.5 with the "Gift from the Gods" achievement.
Eighth Dimension Autobuyer Challenge: m^0.05/n^0.04*j, where m is the current number of first dimensions you have and j is your previous sacrifice multiplier.
After Infinity Challenge 2: n^m, where m is 0.01 at base and 0.011 with the "Yet another infinity reference" achievement.

Infinity
Once you eliminated all antimatter (2^1024, or 1.7976931348623159e308) you’ll reach infinity and be able to perform a “Big Bang”.
Each Infinity completed will give an Universe Point. These can be spent on upgrades in the new upgrade tab. You must purchase these upgrades from top to bottom.
The "x2 UP from all sources" upgrade can be bought multiple times, but each purchase requires 10 times as much UP. You must buy all 16 previous infinity upgrades to buy the first level.
When should I try to reach Infinity? It's recommend to get 2 matter galaxies before attempting to reach it. On the way there, you should dimension boost as many times as you can.

Achievements
Each achievement has conditions that must be met before they are earned. Some are very simple, and some are significantly trickier. You may have to infinity or start a challenge before attempting some of the harder ones.
You will recieve a x1.5 multiplier to all dimensions for each completed row. In addition, some achievements have their own rewards.

Challenges
Challenges are unlocked after first infinity; they change in-game mechanics in different ways to create more difficult infinity circumstances.
Each completed challenge will award an auto buyer. You can run them multiple times (though only the first time grants a reward), and they can be exited at any time via the “Exit Challenge” button on the challenge tab.
The rightmost row of Universe Upgrades does not work in challenges.

Autobuyers
Autobuyers:
Autobuyers (awarded by completing challenges) allow the automatic purchase of dimensions, dimension shifts/boosts, galaxies, tickspeed interval decreases, Big Crunches, and Dimensional Sacrifice (later). They are located under the infinty tab in "Autobuyers".

Priority: Priorities tell the game which autobuyer will buy if two are affordable in the same tick. Priority 1 is bought 1st, Priority 2 is bought 2nd, etc. Two equal priorities will pick their buying order randomly.
Autobuyer Speed:The cooloff period before the autobuyer makes another puchase. This rounds up to the nearest 100ms, so 200ms and 101ms are the same speed.
Bulk Buy: Once the Speed of an Autobuyer is maxed, all future upgrades will double the amount the autobuyer purchases per tick. This can be disabled.
Dimension Autobuyer Buy Quantity: Autobuyers for dimensions can be set to buy a single, or until 10, on each cooldown. Bulk buy does not work when the autobuyer is set to singles.
Tickspeed Autobuyer Buy Quantity: The tickspeed autobuyer can be set to buy a single or the max available on each cooldown.
Automatic Dimboost Customization: With the Dimboost autobuyer you can set the max amount of 8th dimensions to use for the autobuyer, the amount of galaxies before dimboosts are always autopurchased, and (when unlocked) the ability to buy dimboosts in bulk (at a fixed amount).
Max Galaxies: The highest amount of galaxies the galaxies autobuyer will buy.
UP on crunch: Once you break Infinity, you can set how many UP you would like to wait for before crunching. It accepts e notation (12.34e5 is 1234000).
Sacrifice Autobuyer: This autobuyer has a maxed timer from the start. You can set how much multiplier it waits for before sacrificing. It accepts e notation.
The double autobuyer tick speed upgrade will have all autobuyers buy twice as fast.
Toggle All Autobuyers: This button will turn all of your autobuyers on or off.

Breaking Infinity
Originally Matter Dimensions was restricted by "Infinity". Since a significant update, you can now "Break Infinity" once your Big Crunch autobuyer has been maxed. This opens up a selection of new upgrades as well as the ability to gain more than 1 universe point per run.
Fixing Infinity:You can revert the breaking at anytime by clicking fix infinity.
UPGain Formula:10^(log(current antimatter)/n-0.75)*bonuses, where n is 308 at default, 307.8 with the "This achievement doesn't exist II"

This is the basic tutorial of Matter Dimension, if you want some anvanced tutorial, let me edit on tomorrow
